fix #11171 by adding SignalR Diagnostics doc (#11173)
aspnet/Docs: aspnetcore/signalr/diagnostics.md

---

> title: Diagnostics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Diagnostics in ASP.NET Core SignalR
```

Author: It's already under the "Real-time apps" heading. Most of the other TOC entries don't include SignalR. It feels like it might be a bit out of place. I do think changing it in the h1 and document title makes sense.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7574/53526007-f700ac80-3a97-11e9-8dcb-bf58d141229c.png)

Author: (Also per @tdykstra 's earlier comment it's now "Logging and diagnostics")

author: anurse

> description: Learn how to gather diagnostics from your SignalR application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to gather diagnostics from your ASP.NET Core SignalR app.
```

monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-2.1'
ms.author: anurse
ms.custom: signalr
ms.date: 02/27/2019
uid: signalr/diagnostics
---
# Diagnostics

By [Andrew Stanton-Nurse](https://twitter.com/anurse)

> This article provides guidance for gather diagnostics from your SignalR application to help troubleshoot issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article provides guidance for gathering diagnostics from your ASP.NET Core SignalR app to help troubleshoot issues.
```

> This article provides guidance for gather diagnostics from your SignalR application to help troubleshoot issues.

Author: ![No, no, it ok. Don't be cry.](https://media1.tenor.com/images/f89489c4a560c529e8c519ed2eb608bb/tenor.gif?itemid=5609978)

> ## Server-Side Logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Server-side logging
```

> [!NOTE]
> Server-side logs may contain sensitive information from your application. **Never** post raw logs from production applications to public forums like GitHub.

> Since SignalR is part of ASP.NET Core, it uses the ASP.NET Core Logging system. In the default configuration, SignalR logs very little information, but this can configured. See the documentation on [ASP.NET Core Logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index#configuration) for details on configuring ASP.NET Core logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since SignalR is part of ASP.NET Core, it uses the ASP.NET Core logging system. In the default configuration, SignalR logs very little information, but this can configured. For details on configuring ASP.NET Core logging, see the documentation on [ASP.NET Core Logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index#configuration).
```

SignalR uses two logging prefixes:

> * `Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR` - for logs related to Hub Protocols, activating Hubs, invoking methods, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR` &mdash; for logs related to Hub Protocols, activating Hubs, invoking methods, etc.
```

> * `Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR` - for logs related to Hub Protocols, activating Hubs, invoking methods, etc.

Author: Quod facit sensu. ;P

> * `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Connections` - for logs related to transports such as WebSockets, Long Polling and Server-Sent Events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Connections` &mdash; for logs related to transports such as WebSockets, Long Polling, and Server-Sent Events.
```

> To enable detailed logs from SignalR, configure both of these prefixes to the `Debug` level in your `appsettings.json` file by adding the following items to the `LogLevel` sub-section in `Logging`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable detailed logs from SignalR, configure both of the preceding prefixes to the `Debug` level in your `appsettings.json` file by adding the following items to the `LogLevel` sub-section in `Logging`:
```

> To enable detailed logs from SignalR, configure both of these prefixes to the `Debug` level in your `appsettings.json` file by adding the following items to the `LogLevel` sub-section in `Logging`:

Author: Trace is generally pretty low-level in our .NET logging. I'll put a note in about the Trace level at the end of this section though.

I'll also double-check if the JavaScript one should use `Debug` instead. We aren't super consistent about log levels between languages unfortuantely...

> [!code-javascript[Configuring logging](diagnostics/logging-config.json?highlight=7-8)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!code-json[Configuring logging](diagnostics/logging-config.json?highlight=7-8)]
```

You can also configure this in code in your `CreateWebHostBuilder` method:

[!code-csharp[Configuring logging in code](diagnostics/logging-config-code.cs?highlight=5-6)]

If you aren't using JSON-based configuration, set the following configuration values in your configuration system:

> * `Logging::LogLevel::Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR` = `Debug`

Author: Oh, you're right. I was conflating it with env vars which are 2 `_` characters.

* `Logging::LogLevel::Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Connections` = `Debug`

> ## Accessing Server-Side Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Access server-side logs

```

> How you access server-side logs depends on the environment in which you are running.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't really seem worth a section as is.

Reviewer 2: Nvm. I realize this is a section of sections.

> How you access server-side logs depends on the environment in which you are running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How you access server-side logs depends on the environment in which you're running.
```

### As a console app outside IIS

> If you are running in a console app, the [Console logger](xref:fundamentals/logging/index#console-provider) should be enabled by default and SignalR logs will appear on the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running in a console app, the [Console logger](xref:fundamentals/logging/index#console-provider) should be enabled by default. SignalR logs will appear in the console.
```

### Within IIS Express from Visual Studio

> Visual Studio shows the log output in the Output Window in the "ASP.NET Core Web Server" drop down option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visual Studio displays the log output in the **Output** window. Select the **ASP.NET Core Web Server** drop down option.
```

### Azure App Service

> Enable the "Application Logging (Filesystem)" option in the "Diagnostics logs" section of the Azure App Service portal and configure the Level to `Verbose`. Logs should be available from the "Log streaming" service, as well as in logs on the file system of your App Service. See the documentation on [Azure log streaming](xref:fundamentals/logging/index#azure-log-streaming) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the "Application Logging (Filesystem)" option in the "Diagnostics logs" section of the Azure App Service portal and configure the Level to `Verbose`. Logs should be available from the "Log streaming" service, as well as in logs on the file system of your App Service. For more information, see the documentation on [Azure log streaming](xref:fundamentals/logging/index#azure-log-streaming).
```

### Other environments

> If you are running in another environment (Docker, Kubernetes, Windows Service, etc.), see the full documentation on [ASP.NET Core Logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index) for more information on how to configure logging providers suitable to your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running in another environment (Docker, Kubernetes, Windows Service, etc.), see the full documentation on [ASP.NET Core Logging](xref:fundamentals/logging/index) for more information on how to configure logging providers suitable to your environment.
```

## JavaScript client logging

> [!NOTE]

> > Client-side logs may contain sensitive information from your application. **Never** post raw logs from production applications to public forums like GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Client-side logs may contain sensitive information from your app. **Never** post raw logs from production applications to public forums like GitHub.
```

When using the JavaScript client, you can configure logging options using the `.configureLogging` method on `HubConnectionBuilder`:

[!code-javascript[Configuring logging in the JavaScript client](diagnostics/logging-config-js.js?highlight=3)]

> [!NOTE]
> To disable logging entirely, specify `signalR.LogLevel.None` in the `configureLogging` method.

Log levels available to the JavaScript client are listed below. Setting the log level to one of these values enables logging of message at that level, as well as all log levels above it on the table below:

| Level | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `None` | No messages are logged. |
| `Critical` | Messages that indicate a failure in the entire app. |
| `Error` | Messages that indicate a failure in the current operation. |
| `Warning` | Messages that indicate a non-fatal problem. |
| `Information` | Informational messages. |
| `Debug` | Diagnostic messages useful for debugging. |
| `Trace` | Very detailed diagnostic messages designed for diagnosing specific issues. |

> Once you've configured the verbosity, the logs will be written to the Browser Console (or Standard Output in a NodeJS application).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've configured the verbosity, the logs will be written to the Browser Console (or Standard Output in a NodeJS app).
```

If you want to send logs to a custom logging system, you can provide a JavaScript object implementing the `ILogger` interface. The only method that needs to be implemented is `log`, which takes the level of the event and the message associated with the event. For example:

[!code-typescript[Creating a custom logger](diagnostics/custom-logger.ts?highlight=3-7,13)]

## .NET client logging

> [!NOTE]

> > Client-side logs may contain sensitive information from your application. **Never** post raw logs from production applications to public forums like GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Client-side logs may contain sensitive information from your app. **Never** post raw logs from production apps to public forums like GitHub.
```

> To get logs from the .NET client, you can use the `.ConfigureLogging` method on `HubConnectionBuilder`. This works the same way as the `.ConfigureLogging` method on `WebHostBuilder` and `HostBuilder`. You can configure the same logging providers you use in ASP.NET Core. However, you have to manually install and enable the NuGet packages for the individual logging providers.

Reviewer 2: Nit: method names are referenced in an inconsistent matter. Some, like `.ConfigureLogging` above, start with a period. And others, like `AddConsole` below, don't.

### Console logging

> In order to enable Console logging, add the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Console` nuget package. Then, use the `AddConsole` method to configure the console logger:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to enable Console logging, add the [Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Console](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Console) package. Then, use the `AddConsole` method to configure the console logger:
```

[!code-csharp[Configuring console logging in .NET client](diagnostics/net-client-console-log.cs?highlight=6)]

### Debug output window logging

> You can also configure logs to go to the Output Window in Visual Studio. Install the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Debug` package and use the `AddDebug` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure logs to go to the **Output** window in Visual Studio. Install the [Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Debug](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Debug) package and use the `AddDebug` method:
```

[!code-csharp[Configuring debug output window logging in .NET client](diagnostics/net-client-debug-log.cs?highlight=6)]

### Other logging providers

> You can also use other logging providers such as Serilog, Seq, NLog, or any other logging system that integrates with `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging`. If your logging system provides an `ILoggerProvider`, you can register it with `.AddProvider`:

Reviewer 2: Nit: The above three sections start with "You can also" which is a little repetitive

[!code-csharp[Configuring a custom logging provider in .NET client](diagnostics/net-client-custom-log.cs?highlight=6)]

> ### Controlling verbosity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Control verbosity
```

> If the debug logs are too verbose, you can set the default minimum level to `Information` and just increase the logging level for SignalR logs. This can be done in code, in much the same was as on the server:

Reviewer 2: Nit:

```suggestion
If the debug logs are too verbose, you can set the default minimum level to `Information` to increase the logging level for SignalR logs. This can be done in code, in much the same was as on the server:
```

Author: That's not quite accurate. What I'm describing is **lowering** the default verbosity and then **increasing** the verbosity just for SignalR. It definitely feels clunky though.

Author: Got an attempt to de-clunk in the next iteration.

> If the debug logs are too verbose, you can set the default minimum level to `Information` and just increase the logging level for SignalR logs. This can be done in code, in much the same was as on the server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the debug logs are too verbose, you can set the default minimum level to `Information` and just increase the logging level for SignalR logs. This can be done in code, in much the same way as on the server:
```

[!code-csharp[Controlling verbosity in .NET client](diagnostics/logging-config-client-code.cs?highlight=8-10)]

## Network traces

> [!NOTE]

> > A network trace contains the full contents of every message sent by your application. **Never** post raw network traces from production applications to public forums like GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A network trace contains the full contents of every message sent by your app. **Never** post raw network traces from production apps to public forums like GitHub.
```

> If you encounter an issue, a network trace can sometimes provide a lot of helpful information. This is particularly useful if you are going to file an issue on our issue tracker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter an issue, a network trace can sometimes provide a lot of helpful information. This is particularly useful if you're going to file an issue on our issue tracker.
```

> ### Using Fiddler (preferred option)

Reviewer 3: Although logically this is under Network traces and should be h3, that's a lot of content excluded from the right nav and forces some sections down to h4.  I suggest continuing with h2 for each mode of getting network traces.

Author: Ok, I think I can bump the h3s and h4s up.

> ### Using Fiddler (preferred option)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use Fiddler (preferred option)
```

> This method works for all apps.

Author: Is that the right URL? Is it `fiddler.com` or `fiddler.local`?

> This method works for all apps.

Author: I'm OK leaving that somewhat up to the user (i.e. to go to Fiddler docs to figure it out)

> Fiddler is a very powerful tool for collecting HTTP traces. Install it from [telerik.com/fiddler](https://www.telerik.com/fiddler), launch it, and then run your application and reproduce the issue. Fiddler is available for Windows, and there are beta versions for macOS and Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fiddler is a very powerful tool for collecting HTTP traces. Install it from [telerik.com/fiddler](https://www.telerik.com/fiddler), launch it, and then run your app and reproduce the issue. Fiddler is available for Windows, and there are beta versions for macOS and Linux.
```

> If you connect using HTTPS, there are some extra steps to ensure Fiddler can decrypt the HTTPS traffic. See the [Fiddler Documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/fiddler/Configure-Fiddler/Tasks/DecryptHTTPS) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you connect using HTTPS, there are some extra steps to ensure Fiddler can decrypt the HTTPS traffic. For more details, see the [Fiddler documentation](https://docs.telerik.com/fiddler/Configure-Fiddler/Tasks/DecryptHTTPS).
```

> Once you've collected the trace, you can export the trace by choosing "File" > "Save" > "All Sessions..." from the menu bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've collected the trace, you can export the trace by choosing **File** > **Save** > **All Sessions...** from the menu bar.
```

![Exporting all sessions from Fiddler](diagnostics/fiddler-export.png)

> ### Using tcpdump (macOS and Linux only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use tcpdump (macOS and Linux only)
```

This method works for all apps.

> You can collect raw TCP traces using tcpdump by running the following command from a terminal window. You may need to be `root` or prefix the command with `sudo` if you get a permissions error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can collect raw TCP traces using tcpdump by running the following command from a command shell. You may need to be `root` or prefix the command with `sudo` if you get a permissions error:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

tcpdump -i [interface] -w trace.pcap
```

> Replace `[interface]` with the network interface you wish to capture on. Usually this is something like `/dev/eth0` (for your standard Ethernet interface) or `/dev/lo0` (for localhost traffic). See the `tcpdump` man page on your host system for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `[interface]` with the network interface you wish to capture on. Usually, this is something like `/dev/eth0` (for your standard Ethernet interface) or `/dev/lo0` (for localhost traffic). For more information, see the `tcpdump` man page on your host system.
```

> ### Using a browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use a browser
```

This method only works for browser-based apps.

You can also use a browser to capture some network traffic.

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer 3: Note box may not be needed here.

IN any case, I would move the paragraph that follows this one to before this one.

Author: I think the paragraphs wrapping this note are pretty repetitive actually, I'll rewrite that section a bit.

> > Most browsers don't include WebSocket and Server-Sent Event messages in exported network traces. If you are using those transports, using a tool like Fiddler or TcpDump (described below) is a better approach.

Reviewer 2: Out of curiosity. Which browsers *do* include WebSocket and Server-Sent Event messages in exported network traces? I do mind leaving it out of the doc though, since it may change.

Author: No browser :). Rewrote these paragraphs from above feedback and rephrased that section.

> > Most browsers don't include WebSocket and Server-Sent Event messages in exported network traces. If you are using those transports, using a tool like Fiddler or TcpDump (described below) is a better approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Most browsers don't include WebSocket and Server-Sent Event messages in exported network traces. If you're using those transports, using a tool like Fiddler or TcpDump (described below) is a better approach.
```

Most browser Developer Tools have a "Network" tab that allows you to capture network activity between the browser and the server.

#### Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer

(The instructions are the same for both Edge and Internet Explorer)

1. Press F12 to open the Dev Tools
2. Click the Network Tab
3. Refresh the page (if needed) and reproduce the problem
4. Click the Save icon in the toolbar to export the trace as a "HAR" file:

![The Save Icon on the Microsoft Edge Dev Tools Network Tab](diagnostics/ie-edge-har-export.png)

#### Google Chrome

1. Press F12 to open the Dev Tools
2. Click the Network Tab
3. Refresh the page (if needed) and reproduce the problem
4. Right click anywhere in the list of requests and choose "Save as HAR with content":

> !["Save as HAR with Content" option in Google Chrome Dev Tools Network Tab](diagnostics/chrome-har-export.png)

Reviewer 3: This image could be shrunk, it seems to be a much larger scale than the others.

Author: I'll crop it down. I originally had it this tall to show the full context of the dev tools, but it does look a little out of place.

#### Mozilla Firefox

1. Press F12 to open the Dev Tools
2. Click the Network Tab
3. Refresh the page (if needed) and reproduce the problem
4. Right click anywhere in the list of requests and choose "Save All As HAR"

!["Save All As HAR" option in Mozilla Firefox Dev Tools Network Tab](diagnostics/firefox-har-export.png)

> ## Attaching Diagnostics files to GitHub issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Attach diagnostics files to GitHub issues
```

You can attach Diagnostics files to GitHub issues by renaming them so they have a `.txt` extension and then dragging and dropping them on to the issue.

> [!NOTE]

> > Please do not paste the content of log files or network traces in GitHub issue. These logs and traces can be quite large and GitHub will usually truncate them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Please don't paste the content of log files or network traces in GitHub issue. These logs and traces can be quite large and GitHub will usually truncate them.
```
